CONTRIBUTING.adoc, before:

## Components
### File names
All components filenames should reflect the component's name, and be in PascalCase.

Ordering of words in the name should be in generic-to-specific order: `ButtonNormal` instead of `NormalButton`. This greatly improves file sorting.

Additionally, prefix component names with the following:

[%header,cols=2*]
|===
| Prefix
| Situation

| Base
| Components that are only used in other components

| The
| Components that are only used once in pages

| Input
| UI Component that are made for user data input
|===

## vuex store
### Modules

Split your vuex code into modules: one per 'resource'. This should roughly match the API's different URLS, eg. `api.schoolsyst.com/homework` should be handled by `store/homework.js`.

### State

Include one empty array with the resource's plural name as the key, one boolean value set to `false` named `loaded`, and additionnal constants that may be reused in the code base (eg. possible values of choice-restricted API fields.)

### Mutations

Construct your mutations using `store/index.js`pass:['s] `getMutations`.

### Actions

For each mutation, when the API request fails, handle the error by showing the user a `$toast.error`.

Each mutation should return...

When the action succeeded :: 
  `[true, object, null]` with `object` the value returned by the matching mutation, or the inner action's `object` return value.

When the action fails because of a validation error :: 
  `[false, validation, 'validation']` with `validation` the value returned by the `validate` getter, or by the inner action's `validation` return value

When the action fails because of a network error ::
  `[false, error, 'network']` with `error` the error object from the `try`/`catch` block.

More generally, the return value is an array with:

1. whether the action succeeded or not
2. the object/array that results from the underlying mutation
3. the failure level, if any. If it succeeded, this is `null`.

Include the following actions: 

load({ force: false, verbose: true }) ::
  - If `loaded` is false or `force` is true
  ** Do a `GET` request
  ** Use the `SET` mutation to store the response in the store
  ** Call the `POSTLOAD` mutation (which sets `loaded` to true.)
  ** If `verbose` is true
  *** Show a `$toast.success` with an appropriate message

post({ data, force: false, verbose: true }) :: 
  * If `force` is false
  ** Validate `data` with the `validate` getter
  ** Let _validated_ be the boolean result of that validation
  * If _validated_ is true or `force` is true
  ** Do a `POST` request with `data`
  ** get the UUID from the response
  ** Do a `GET` request with that UUID
  ** Call the `ADD` mutation with that response
  ** If `verbose` is true
  *** Show the user a `$toast.success` with an appropriate message
  * Else
  ** Show the user a `$toast` with an appropriate error message
  ** Return false and the validation object


patch({ pk, data, force: false, verbose: true }) ::
  * Let _hydrated_ be the object with `data` applied
  * If `force` is false
  ** Validate _hydrated_ with the `validate` getter
  ** Let _validated_ be the boolean result of that validation
  * If _validated_ is true or `force` is true
  ** Do a `PATCH` request with `data`
  ** get the UUID from the response
  ** Do a `GET` request with that UUID
  ** Call the `CHANGE` mutation with that response
  ** If `verbose` is true
  *** Show the user a `$toast.success` with an appropriate message
  * Else
  ** Show the user a `$toast` with an appropriate error message
  ** Return false and the validation object


remove({ pk, force: false, verbose: true }) ::
  * If `force` is false
  ** Search for a resource with `pk` as its primary key in the store
  ** If no object can be found
  *** Return `[false, null, 'validation']`
  * Let _object_ be the found object
  * Return `[true, _object_, null]`

### Getters

Include the following getters:

one(value, { by: '_your_default_pk_' }) ::
  * Return a single object from the resources object with its `by` property matching `value`.

all() ::
  * Return the resource array from the state

order(objects, { by: '_your_default_sorting_method_' }) ::
  * Return the `objects`, sorted using the `by` sorting method. (each sorting method is specific to the resource)

## Code clarity guidelines
### In vue files' <template>

Language :: pug
Indentation :: 2 spaces

#### Directives

Only the following should be written in directives

* a unique scalar value
** for template strings, interpolated values should be variables only.
* a unique function call
* a unique variable

##### An exception for conditional directives (`v-if`, `v-else-if`)

In conditonnal directives, the value can be one of the above, or a logical-operator-separated list of variables, but there must be at most two operators.

.Example
```pug
template(v-if="loggedIn || passwordForgotten")
```

If the exact same condition is reused, make a computed property instead.

#### Line breaks in attribute lists

If the element contains more than two attributes:

.Bad example
```pug
template(v-if="thing" my-stuff :thingie="foo" bar="baz" quux)
```

.Good example
```pug
template(
  v-if="thing"
  :thingie="foo"
  bar="baz"
  my-stuff quux
)
```

### In vue _component_ files' <style>
  
Language :: stylus
Indentation :: 2 spaces

### Sections
Separate your styles into sections using the following comment decorations (including the surrounding blank lines):

```

//
// Section name
//

```

Include the following sections (even if empty), in order:

. Definitions +
  _Includes stylus variables & functions as well as CSS variables_
. Layout +
  _Includes `position`, `display`, all positioning, sizing & spacing-related properties_
. Decoration +
  _Includes all `border-` properties, `outline` & `box-shadow`.
. Colors +
  _Includes `color`, `background-color`, `opacity`._
. Typography +
  _Includes all `font-` properties and `text-decoration`._
. Reactions +
  _Includes selectors that use `:hover`, `:focus` or other interaction-related pseudo selectors or classes, as well as `transition`, `animation` and `@keyframes`._
. Hacks +
  _CSS Hacks / bad practice styling rules_
  
### Selector nesting

.Nest selectors when...
* The class name is not unique to the component
* Constructing multiple selectors with `&` becomes more readable than listing all selectors explicitly (should *not* exceed 3 indentation levels)

### Selector separations

- Put 2 empty lines between selectors that apply to a different part of the component
- Put 1 empty lines between selectors that apply to the same part of the component

### Value references

Sometimes, we're forced to use constant values when refering to something else (eg. the padding on this component should be equal to the navbar's height).

These kind of rules, if left undocumented, are huge sources of confusion when values referenced change.

To work around this, add a comment above or after the rule:

.Reference notice comment specification
```
//ref: <COMPONENT_NAME> [SELECTOR] REFERENCED_PROPERTY [(EXPLANATION)]
```

With:

COMPONENT_NAME :: The referenced component
SELECTOR :: The selector (if omitted, the selector is the component's root element)
REFERENCED_PROPERTY :: The property the rule gets its value from
EXPLANATION :: Explain why you must do a reference.

## Commit messages

This repository follows the https://github.com/carloscuesta/gitmoji[gitmoji] commit standard.
Additonal conventions are added on top of the intent-indicating emoji. Here's how commit titles should be constructed:

```
EMOJI [SCOPE_PREFIX SCOPE SCOPE_SUFFIX] IMPERATIVE_SENTENCE
```

With:

EMOJI :: The emoji used. Must follow the gitmoji standard. A second emoji can be appended to the first if it is one of the following:
- 💩 (Writing bad code that needs to be fixed)
- 🚧 (Work in progress)
SCOPE_PREFIX, SCOPE_SUFFIX :: Indicates if the changes apply to one particular area of the codebase. Must be one of the <<Scope Prefix/Suffix characters>>
SCOPE :: Indicates the file/topic affected.
IMPERATIVE_SENTENCE :: A sentence at the imperative tense, indicating the change applied to the codebase.


### Scope Prefix/Suffix characters
The scope prefix indicates what area of the codebase changed.
Less specific than the scope itself, but useful because file names overlaps. (eg. homework is a page & vuex module)

.Prefixes
[horizontal]
pass:[=] :: Store (vuex)
< :: Components
/ :: Pages
$ :: Plugins
? :: Tests
% :: Layouts
~ :: Middlewares
pass:[#] :: Assets
&nbsp; :: Other (no scope prefix)

.Suffixes
[horizontal]
pass:[>] :: Components
: :: Everything else

Commit message:

:pencil: CONTRIBUTING: Document base components usage

CONTRIBUTING.adoc, after:

## Components
### File names
All components filenames should reflect the component's name, and be in PascalCase.

Ordering of words in the name should be in generic-to-specific order: `ButtonNormal` instead of `NormalButton`. This greatly improves file sorting.

Additionally, prefix component names with the following:

[%header,cols=2*]
|===
| Prefix
| Situation

| Base
| Components that are only used in other components

| The
| Components that are only used once in pages

| Input
| UI Component that are made for user data input
|===

### Inheritance

[%header, cols=2*]
|===
| Components that... 
a| Should inherit from...

| are cards | `BaseCard`
| are user input fields | `BaseInput`
| are modals interacting with resources (add/edit/delete) | `BaseModalObject`
| are modals | `BaseModal`
|===

## vuex store
### Modules

Split your vuex code into modules: one per 'resource'. This should roughly match the API's different URLS, eg. `api.schoolsyst.com/homework` should be handled by `store/homework.js`.

### State

Include one empty array with the resource's plural name as the key, one boolean value set to `false` named `loaded`, and additionnal constants that may be reused in the code base (eg. possible values of choice-restricted API fields.)

### Mutations

Construct your mutations using `store/index.js`pass:['s] `getMutations`.

### Actions

For each mutation, when the API request fails, handle the error by showing the user a `$toast.error`.

Each mutation should return...

When the action succeeded :: 
  `[true, object, null]` with `object` the value returned by the matching mutation, or the inner action's `object` return value.

When the action fails because of a validation error :: 
  `[false, validation, 'validation']` with `validation` the value returned by the `validate` getter, or by the inner action's `validation` return value

When the action fails because of a network error ::
  `[false, error, 'network']` with `error` the error object from the `try`/`catch` block.

More generally, the return value is an array with:

1. whether the action succeeded or not
2. the object/array that results from the underlying mutation
3. the failure level, if any. If it succeeded, this is `null`.

Include the following actions: 

load({ force: false, verbose: true }) ::
  - If `loaded` is false or `force` is true
  ** Do a `GET` request
  ** Use the `SET` mutation to store the response in the store
  ** Call the `POSTLOAD` mutation (which sets `loaded` to true.)
  ** If `verbose` is true
  *** Show a `$toast.success` with an appropriate message

post({ data, force: false, verbose: true }) :: 
  * If `force` is false
  ** Validate `data` with the `validate` getter
  ** Let _validated_ be the boolean result of that validation
  * If _validated_ is true or `force` is true
  ** Do a `POST` request with `data`
  ** get the UUID from the response
  ** Do a `GET` request with that UUID
  ** Call the `ADD` mutation with that response
  ** If `verbose` is true
  *** Show the user a `$toast.success` with an appropriate message
  * Else
  ** Show the user a `$toast` with an appropriate error message
  ** Return false and the validation object


patch({ pk, data, force: false, verbose: true }) ::
  * Let _hydrated_ be the object with `data` applied
  * If `force` is false
  ** Validate _hydrated_ with the `validate` getter
  ** Let _validated_ be the boolean result of that validation
  * If _validated_ is true or `force` is true
  ** Do a `PATCH` request with `data`
  ** get the UUID from the response
  ** Do a `GET` request with that UUID
  ** Call the `CHANGE` mutation with that response
  ** If `verbose` is true
  *** Show the user a `$toast.success` with an appropriate message
  * Else
  ** Show the user a `$toast` with an appropriate error message
  ** Return false and the validation object


remove({ pk, force: false, verbose: true }) ::
  * If `force` is false
  ** Search for a resource with `pk` as its primary key in the store
  ** If no object can be found
  *** Return `[false, null, 'validation']`
  * Let _object_ be the found object
  * Return `[true, _object_, null]`

### Getters

Include the following getters:

one(value, { by: '_your_default_pk_' }) ::
  * Return a single object from the resources object with its `by` property matching `value`.

all() ::
  * Return the resource array from the state

order(objects, { by: '_your_default_sorting_method_' }) ::
  * Return the `objects`, sorted using the `by` sorting method. (each sorting method is specific to the resource)

## Code clarity guidelines
### In vue files' <template>

Language :: pug
Indentation :: 2 spaces

#### Directives

Only the following should be written in directives

* a unique scalar value
** for template strings, interpolated values should be variables only.
* a unique function call
* a unique variable

##### An exception for conditional directives (`v-if`, `v-else-if`)

In conditonnal directives, the value can be one of the above, or a logical-operator-separated list of variables, but there must be at most two operators.

.Example
```pug
template(v-if="loggedIn || passwordForgotten")
```

If the exact same condition is reused, make a computed property instead.

#### Line breaks in attribute lists

If the element contains more than two attributes:

.Bad example
```pug
template(v-if="thing" my-stuff :thingie="foo" bar="baz" quux)
```

.Good example
```pug
template(
  v-if="thing"
  :thingie="foo"
  bar="baz"
  my-stuff quux
)
```

### In vue _component_ files' <style>
  
Language :: stylus
Indentation :: 2 spaces

### Sections
Separate your styles into sections using the following comment decorations (including the surrounding blank lines):

```

//
// Section name
//

```

Include the following sections (even if empty), in order:

. Definitions +
  _Includes stylus variables & functions as well as CSS variables_
. Layout +
  _Includes `position`, `display`, all positioning, sizing & spacing-related properties_
. Decoration +
  _Includes all `border-` properties, `outline` & `box-shadow`.
. Colors +
  _Includes `color`, `background-color`, `opacity`._
. Typography +
  _Includes all `font-` properties and `text-decoration`._
. Reactions +
  _Includes selectors that use `:hover`, `:focus` or other interaction-related pseudo selectors or classes, as well as `transition`, `animation` and `@keyframes`._
. Hacks +
  _CSS Hacks / bad practice styling rules_
  
### Selector nesting

.Nest selectors when...
* The class name is not unique to the component
* Constructing multiple selectors with `&` becomes more readable than listing all selectors explicitly (should *not* exceed 3 indentation levels)

### Selector separations

- Put 2 empty lines between selectors that apply to a different part of the component
- Put 1 empty lines between selectors that apply to the same part of the component

### Value references

Sometimes, we're forced to use constant values when refering to something else (eg. the padding on this component should be equal to the navbar's height).

These kind of rules, if left undocumented, are huge sources of confusion when values referenced change.

To work around this, add a comment above or after the rule:

.Reference notice comment specification
```
//ref: <COMPONENT_NAME> [SELECTOR] REFERENCED_PROPERTY [(EXPLANATION)]
```

With:

COMPONENT_NAME :: The referenced component
SELECTOR :: The selector (if omitted, the selector is the component's root element)
REFERENCED_PROPERTY :: The property the rule gets its value from
EXPLANATION :: Explain why you must do a reference.

## Commit messages

This repository follows the https://github.com/carloscuesta/gitmoji[gitmoji] commit standard.
Additonal conventions are added on top of the intent-indicating emoji. Here's how commit titles should be constructed:

```
EMOJI [SCOPE_PREFIX SCOPE SCOPE_SUFFIX] IMPERATIVE_SENTENCE
```

With:

EMOJI :: The emoji used. Must follow the gitmoji standard. A second emoji can be appended to the first if it is one of the following:
- 💩 (Writing bad code that needs to be fixed)
- 🚧 (Work in progress)
SCOPE_PREFIX, SCOPE_SUFFIX :: Indicates if the changes apply to one particular area of the codebase. Must be one of the <<Scope Prefix/Suffix characters>>
SCOPE :: Indicates the file/topic affected.
IMPERATIVE_SENTENCE :: A sentence at the imperative tense, indicating the change applied to the codebase.


### Scope Prefix/Suffix characters
The scope prefix indicates what area of the codebase changed.
Less specific than the scope itself, but useful because file names overlaps. (eg. homework is a page & vuex module)

.Prefixes
[horizontal]
pass:[=] :: Store (vuex)
< :: Components
/ :: Pages
$ :: Plugins
? :: Tests
% :: Layouts
~ :: Middlewares
pass:[#] :: Assets
&nbsp; :: Other (no scope prefix)

.Suffixes
[horizontal]
pass:[>] :: Components
: :: Everything else
